Welcome back everyone.
And this lecture will finish off our discussion about pi by talking about non-pay operations.
Let's open up a Jupiter notebook and get started.
The first thing I'll do in the Jupiter notebook is just important up-I as an.
And then we'll create an array called a r r and this will be empire that arr. say 0 comet 10.
So we get 0 3 9.
There let's talk about arithmetic.
So you can actually easily perform array of 4:8 arithmetic or scalar with arithmetic where a scalar
number is just the single value number.
Let's actually see some examples of this.
If I take my array and I add it to an array what it ends up doing is does the addition element by element
basis based after index position.
So it takes index at 0 as its index at zero takes an X that one adds to and so on X cetera.
So you can see this basically just doubled every number because essentially times 2.
So you could also do something like array multiplied by an array and that is an element by element.
So you can see every number is basically now squared.
So two times two is four three times three is nine extra you can do this with subtraction as well.
So this should just produce all zeros and you can even do this division.
Now a quick no on division if you have a zero in your array and you'll get a warning that says runtime
warning invalid value encountered in true divide.
What that actually means is it doesn't really make sense to do zero divided by zero.
Doesn't make sense to divide by zero or have zero divided by something.
So instead of actually producing a full error you get this warning here so keep that in mind.
No pi won't just basically have an error and stop the program.
We'll just release a warning for you and instead what it does it replaces it with this.
And eyin value or non-applicable value.
Now this law also do something like If you do one divided by the array you'll get a warning as well.
But it's that or place place by infinity because one divided by zero.
The close thinks that is technically infinity so there's kind of this infinity hold there there but
again it's going to warn you.
And usually you don't really want to feel like this especially when we're dealing with real values such
as stock data or securities data.
So keep that in mind.
It won't produce a true error.
We'll just get some sort of warning here.
And lastly we can actually do exponentials as well.
You can do anything with scalars so if you want to do everything to the power of three in your array
you get something like this.
And if you want to add the number 100 it's everything in.
You can just do something like that.
So what this means is this will broadcast this to every single element in the array and that's going
to be really useful later on.
Now there are certain mathematical functions that aren't going to be as simple as just an addition or
subtraction.
So numb pie actually comes with many universal array functions and there's a linking of Jupiter note
book for the documentation for that.
And essentially what they are is just mathematical operations that you can use to perform the operation
across every element in the array.
So some really common ones can be something like taking the square root so you can say that and if you
see tab you'll see a bunch of different methods.
Now all of these are universal array functions but a lot of them are.
So you can do something like that as security and take the square root of everything in that array.
You can even do things like calculating the exponential so that can be XP that is E to the power of
everything in the array.
You get something like that.
You can also do things like figure out what's the maximum value in an array.
So there's that Max.
And as we saw earlier we could also just call this as a method off the array.
And what's interesting to note is that when you call this method under the hood what it's actually doing
is just calling this universal array function.
It's just a different way of calling it.
And you can do the same thing with other things.
Anything you need basic mathematical function you can think of is available.
So for some reason I want to take the side use Sudol of every thing in the array or the sign of it.
It is available for you if you want to take the log of everything in the array that's available to you
as well.
Just keep in mind if you have a zero and that doesn't really make sense to take a log of 0 you'll get
a warning and I'll say something like negative infinity.
All right.
So there's a lot of these that are available to you as you continue on throughout the course.
The most common ones that we end up using are the things that will show up more often.
OK.
Thanks everyone.
I'll see you at the next lecture.
We we'll go over the exercises for the pie section of the course.